Record of changes to Hobyah.py, SEScon.py and their associated programs
*----------------------------------------------------------------------

This file is a list of changes to the software in the published Hobyah
suite, in date order (newest changes first).  The order of entry is as
follows:

Changes to the two principal scripts:
    Hobyah.py
    SESconv.py,

Changes to the secondary scripts/programs:
    classHobyah.py
    classSES.py
    compressible.f95
    generics.py
    syntax.py
    UScustomary.py

Changes to the tertiary scripts:
    _error-statements.py
    generate-batch-files.py

Changes to the spreadsheets:
    slug-flow-quadratics.ods

The most recent changes to each file can be jumped to by searching for
"*-" (without double quotes).


Hobyah.py
*--------

26 May 2025
-----------
Fixed a bug in which the .hbn file of the file being run in Hobyah was
looked for in the current working directory rather than the directory
that the input file is in.

When writing new SES input files, changed the count of decimal places
of segment lengths in form 5 to match the count of decimal places in
the segment stack height.  This should reduce the occurrence of "stack
height longer than the segment" errors in SES input files generated
from Hobyah files.

Changed the units of wheel diameters from metres to millimetres when
writing SVS input files generated from Hobyah tunnel networks.

Modified the text of error 2104 to include the names of valid entries
rather than the full specification of those valid entries.

Modified the writing of SES files to raise an error if the tunnels
are not all connected together (this is fine in Hobyah but not allowed
in SES).

Modified the writing of SES files to handle SES files that have no
routes or trains.

Changed the definition of the variable "outstem" (which is written to the
gnuplot .plt file so that advanced users of gnuplot can use it) so that
it does not include a trailing ".".

Changed the string definitions in regular expressions and some function
descriptions to be raw strings so that newer versions of Python don't
raise 'SyntaxWarning: invalid escape sequence' when they process the
code.

Added code to prevent messages about the Fortran compressible flow
routines being written to the screen multiple times when using Python's
multiprocessing module.

Reduced the default passenger mass in SES input files from 100 kg (morbidly
obese passengers) to 90.5 (slightly less morbidly obese).  This avoids
tripping SES error type 4 (passenger mass over 200 lbs).

Added descriptions of the errors raised in the procedure ProcessSESData.


24 October 2024
---------------
Added a Windows executable file "Hobyah.exe" and a standalone installation
of Python in the subfolder "_internal" that the .exe file uses.

Added code to allow the script to be compiled into a Windows executable
file by the PyInstaller module and work with the multiprocessing module.

Added code to set the time and date of compilation manually, to bypass
a feature that does not work in executables compiled by the PyInstaller
module.  This is commented out in development code, but is uncommented
and updated in code uploaded to github.  The values are set in the
variable called "script_date".

Added print statements to identify whether the script succeeded in
loading the Fortran compressible flow routines (the binaries compiled
from compressible.f95 by f2py).

Corrected a bug in the processing of transient curves that caused error
6124 to not be raised when processing transient curves plotted from
.hbn files.

Corrected a bug in the processing of transient curves from SES files
in which the distance along a route was set by a constant, not a number.
The name of the constant used to appear in the autokey instead of the
value of the constant.


SESconv.py
*---------

26 May 2025
-----------
Added support for processing SVS output files (.OUT files) and storing
SVS data in .sbn files for plotting by Hobyah.py.  Some SVS input errors
are not yet trapped - if you manage to trigger one, please raise a bug
report on GitHub.

Added code to improve the processing of files that don't run due to
having too many input errors.

Added support for processing printouts of train tail loss factor in the
open air (in offline-SES v204.6 and SVS).

Added code to calculate and print the tail loss factor to the output file
for versions of SES that don't print it.

Added developer command line option "-picky" to print warning messages
that catch Fortran print field overflows and report on suspicious
characters at the start and end of a number on a line.  These are
otherwise only written to the log file.  This is mostly useful for
debugging during development and is likely to not be useful for most
users.

Added support for processing the printouts of train nose pressure loss,
tail loss and train skin friction loss printed by offline-SES v204.6
and above.

Corrected the processing of files that raise SES error 125.

Added code to process files with SES type 6 junctions (a reserved type
that in SES v4.1 turns out to treat the same as a zero pressure change
junction).

Modified some checks of offline-SES versions to avoid possible
floating-point mismatches.

Corrected a bug with the sorting of sections into the order needed
for processing the runtime output.

Added code to handle offline-SES error messages.

Added code to process tables of runtime annulus areas and pressure losses
due to train ends and skin friction written by offline-SES v204.6.

Changed the string definitions in regular expressions and in some
function descriptions to be raw strings so that newer versions of
Python don't raise 'SyntaxWarning: invalid escape sequence'.

Modified Pandas calls to avoid using features that will be eventually
be deprecated.

Raised the .sbn file version to 12 to account for the new data stored
in it during the processing of offline-SES files and SVS files.

24 October 2024
---------------
Added a Windows executable file "SESconv.exe" with a standalone installation
of Python in the subfolder "_internal" that the .exe file uses.

Added code to allow the script to be compiled into a Windows executable
file by the PyInstaller module and make the multiprocessing module work
with PyInstaller.

Added code to set the time and date of compilation manually, to bypass
a feature that does not work in executables compiled by the PyInstaller
module.  This is commented out in development code, but is uncommented
and updated in code uploaded to github.  The values are set in the
variable called "script_date".

Moved the "import multiprocessing" statement to the top level to make
it work with PyInstaller.


classHobyah.py
*-------------
No changes.


classSES.py
*----------

26 May 2025
-----------
Added support for reading a dictionary containing form 14 (SVS cooling
pipes).

Added three plot types valid for .sbn files generated from SVS files:
 * "SVSeffic", the traction power efficiency printed for train control
   option 3 (fraction 0-1)
 * "SVSregen1", regen braking efficiency from track-based regen
   efficiencies as seen by a train moving along the route (percent)
 * "SVSregen2", regen braking efficiency from track-based regen
   efficiencies plotted against the route chainage (percent)


Raised the lowest valid binary file version from 10 to 12.

Changed the string definitions in regular expressions and in some
function descriptions to be raw strings so that newer versions of
Python don't raise 'SyntaxWarning: invalid escape sequence'.


24 October 2024
---------------
Modified calls in "WriteInputFile" to include the Boolean 'aur' in
some calls to "FormatInpLine" so that the optional comment is not
treated as the Boolean.
Modified "WriteInputFile" to only include the comment "Form 4A" at
the first instance of form 4 instead of all instances.
Modified "WriteInputFile" to turn off temperature derating in SVS
form 7C instead of having it on (mostly because IP2SI2IP.EXE turns
it off - not because I think temperature derating being off by
default is a good choice).
Corrected a bug in the writing of form 8E in which the counts of
decimal places were only set for files in US units.
Modified the comment for the fourth line of form 9G to account for
SVS train control option 3.

compressible.f95
*---------------
24 October 2024
---------------
Corrected an error in the comments.


generics.py
*----------
26 May 2025
-----------
Corrected a bug in code in FormatOnLines that failed to remove an
internal key called "block_index" from the list of keys shown to
the user in error messages.


syntax.py
*--------
No changes.


UScustomary.py
*-------------
26 May 2025
-----------
Added support for converting SVS output files, where most of the
conversion factors are 1.0 (some are 1000 or 0.001, though).
The differences between SI files written by SVS and SI information
stored in .sbn files written by SESconv.py are as follows:
    Form 1F: atmospheric pressure is stored in Pa, not kPa
    Form 3B: roughness heights are stored in metres, not mm
    Form 4:  fire heat gainsare in stored in MW, not watts
    Form 9D: grid diameters are stored as metres, not mm
    Form 9E: static friction coefficients are stored as N/kg, not
             N/tonne
    Form 9E: rolling friction coefficients are stored as N/kg per m/s,
             not N/tonne-kph
    Form 9E: rotating mass resistance is stored as % tare mass,
             not kg/car
    Form 9F: wheel diameters are stored as metres, not mm


generate-batch-files.py
*----------------------
No changes.


_error-statements.py
*-------------------
26 May 2025
-----------
Changed the list of error numbers that have no file to test them to
a dictionary, with the error number as the key and a string with the
reason for there being no test file as the value.


"_error-statements.py" is an ancillary script that will be of
interest to those who want to dig into the evidence for validation
requirement 2 in the verification and validation document.
Requirement 2 reads:
  "Some errors don’t have test files.  Document why those error
   messages have no test files."
The reasons are documented in a dictionary named "no_testfile".  The
key is an error number, the value yielded for each is a string with
the reason why the error number has no testfile.  That's the only
reason to upload this script: to let people read the reasoning.


slug-flow-quadratics.ods
*-----------------------
July 2023
---------
Corrected an error in the traffic blockage.  Changed the calculation and
notes to match the verification document.

Mar 2021
--------
No change to the calculation.  Altered the text descriptions of the
range and sanity checks to the correct rows.

Dec 2020
--------
Corrected the selection of which quadratic to use at slow vehicle speeds,
added a note about density 1.2 kg/m3.

